<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="skills-for-roles">

<title>Essential Skills</title>
<shortdesc>This section outlines the key skills and competencies typically required for the ten most in-demand technical job roles identified for 2025.</shortdesc>

<refbody>
<section>
<p>Understanding the necessary skills is crucial for aspiring tech professionals looking to enter or advance in their careers. By focusing on developing these competencies, individuals can significantly enhance their employability in the competitive tech job market.</p>
</section>

<table frame="all">
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="c1" colwidth="40%"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colwidth="60%"/>

<thead>
<row>
<entry>Job Role</entry>
<entry>Key Skills</entry>
</row>
</thead>

<tbody>
<row>
<entry>AI/ML Engineer</entry>
<entry>Programming (Python, R), ML algorithms &amp; frameworks (TensorFlow, PyTorch), Deep learning, Data modeling, Statistical analysis, Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP), NLP/Computer Vision (for some), Math (linear algebra, calculus, probability), Problem-solving.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Cybersecurity Analyst</entry>
<entry>Network security, Security protocols, Threat detection, Vulnerability assessment, SIEM, Malware analysis, Incident response, Security frameworks, Scripting (Python, Bash - beneficial), Analytical skills.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Cloud Architect</entry>
<entry>Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP), IaC (Terraform, CloudFormation), Cloud networking, Cloud security, Containerization (Docker, Kubernetes), Serverless, Cloud storage &amp; databases, Disaster recovery, Cloud cost management, System architecture.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Data Scientist</entry>
<entry>Programming (Python, R), Statistical analysis &amp; modeling, ML algorithms, Data visualization (Tableau, Power BI), Big data (Spark, Hadoop), SQL, Data cleaning, Experimental design, Communication, Domain expertise (beneficial).</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Software Developer (Full-Stack)</entry>
<entry>Front-end (HTML, CSS, JavaScript frameworks), Back-end languages (Python, Java, Node.js, C#), Databases (SQL, NoSQL), API design (RESTful, GraphQL), Git, Software testing, Development methodologies (Agile), Problem-solving, Cloud familiarity (beneficial), System architecture.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>DevOps Engineer</entry>
<entry>IaC (Terraform, Ansible, Chef), Containerization (Docker, Kubernetes), CI/CD (Jenkins, GitLab CI/CD), Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP), Scripting (Python, Bash), Monitoring &amp; logging (Prometheus, Grafana, ELK), Automation, Networking &amp; security basics, Collaboration.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Data Engineer</entry>
<entry>Big data (Hadoop, Spark, Kafka), Data warehousing, ETL tools, Databases (SQL, NoSQL), Programming (Python, Scala, Java), Cloud data services (AWS, Azure, GCP), Data modeling, Data governance, Problem-solving, Data pipelines.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Network Engineer</entry>
<entry>Networking protocols (TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, BGP, OSPF), Network hardware, Network security, Monitoring &amp; troubleshooting, Cloud networking, Wireless, Network automation (Python - beneficial), Network design, Analytical skills, Certifications (CCNA, CCNP - often preferred).</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>UX/UI Designer</entry>
<entry>User research, Wireframing &amp; prototyping (Sketch, Figma, Adobe XD), UI design, UX methodologies, Information architecture, Usability testing, Visual design (Photoshop, Illustrator), Front-end basics (HTML, CSS, JavaScript - beneficial), Empathy, Communication.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>Blockchain Developer</entry>
<entry>Blockchain concepts, Smart contract development (Solidity), Programming (Solidity, Go, JavaScript, C++), Cryptography, Web development, dApps, Blockchain platforms (Ethereum, Hyperledger), Blockchain security, Problem-solving, Decentralized systems interest.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>

</tgroup>
</table>

</refbody>
</reference>