<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="write-resume">

<title>Write Your Compelling Resume</title>

<taskbody>

<prereq>
<p>Before you begin writing your resume, gather the following information:</p>
<ul>
<li>Your complete work history, including company names, job titles, dates of employment, and a brief description of your responsibilities.</li>
<li>Details of your educational background, including degrees, institutions attended, graduation dates, and any relevant academic achievements.</li>
<li>A comprehensive list of your technical skills, including programming languages, frameworks, tools, and technologies you are proficient in.</li>
<li>Information about relevant projects you have worked on, technologies used, and contributions.</li>
<li>Details of any certifications, awards, or recognition you have received.</li>
</ul>

<p>After gathering all the required information, please follow the steps below:</p>
</prereq>

<steps>

<step>
<cmd><b>Choose a Professional Format:</b> Use a clean, readable template with consistent formatting.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Contact Information:</b> Include name, phone, professional email, and LinkedIn URL.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Objective:</b> Write a brief (2-3 sentence) summary of your key skills and goals (for experienced) or career objective (for entry-level).</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Professional Experience:</b> List jobs (most recent first) with company, title, dates, and 3-5 bullet points of quantifiable achievements using action verbs.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Education:</b> List degrees (most recent first) with degree name, major, university, and graduation date. Include relevant coursework if applicable.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Technical Skills:</b> Create a categorized list (e.g., Programming, Frameworks, Tools) of your proficiencies.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Projects (Recommended):</b> Include personal/academic projects showcasing skills, with brief descriptions, technologies, and your role. Link to live demos/<xref href="https://github.com/" scope="external">GitHub</xref> if possible.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Optional Sections:</b> Add relevant certifications, awards, or professional affiliations if they strengthen your application.</cmd>
</step>

<step>
<cmd><b>Proofread Carefully:</b> Review for errors in grammar and spelling. Get someone else to read it too.</cmd>
</step>

</steps>

<result>Once completed, you will have a well-structured and compelling resume that effectively increases your chances of landing interviews for your desired tech roles.</result>

<postreq>
<p><b>Please Note:</b></p>
<ul>
<li>Save your resume in PDF format to preserve formatting across different devices.</li>
<li>Tailor your resume to each specific job application, emphasizing the skills and experiences most relevant to the job description.</li>
<li>Seek feedback on your resume from career advisors, mentors, or experienced professionals in your field.</li>
<li>Keep your resume updated as you gain new skills and experience.</li>
</ul>
</postreq>

</taskbody>
</task>